AILSA INTERNAL USE ONLY

Opportunity / Funding Stream / Sector

British Heart Foundation Implementation Fund – Spring 2026 (up to £350K project value)

Preparation Points

Identify the best Lead Investigator (Priority Task). We’ll need to shortlist the potential LIs within your organisation (NHS or academic partner). Whether this is one of the team at Loughborough or someone within the BLMK ICB, the lead applicant needs to be employed by an NHS organisation or academic institute. Holly Health will need to act as a team partner in this consortium, and we should look to confirm whose institution can act as the host organisation as an early priority.

Importantly, Holly Health should, as a commercial partner, ideally be ‘funding elements of the implementation that are related to your proprietary interests.’ Which is to say, it’s worth thinking about the bare minimum cost profile that Holly Health itself could offer and work very much with leanness in mind. 

Once the project participants are identified, each party will need to register for an account on BHF’s Grant Management System (GMS). There’s no need to wait until the new round of the programme is announced to do this. 

Plans for the project objectives should be framed around reducing hospital admissions, facilitating improved-quality care, optimising critical resource utilisation, and implementing new technologies. Holly Health’s solution spans most of BHF’s fund foci. 

It’s never too early to think about a project plan. Whilst the upper limit here is £350K, BHF are understandably highly encouraging of applicants that bring exemplary value for money, and aiming for that upper amount would require ironclad justification. The project here will naturally need to be smaller scale than the i4iPDA, so we recommend starting to formulate a timeline and cost profile. If you’d like us to review or consult, we’d be more than happy to. 

Given the focus here is directly on improving QoL for people with CVD, BHF puts as much focus (and possibly more) on patient involvement in the project’s definition and execution, so you have ample opportunity to further entrench the PPIE relationships mentioned in the PDA proposal here as well. Canvassing the relevant personnel to engage as many patient advocacy groups as possible for this application will be something worth kicking off.

BHF uses this fund to support early-stage testing and early-stage scoping (see slides 11-13 of this fund pack for more detail). The common factor between either – and it’s worth saying that a project could contain elements of both categories – is that collaboration between several consortium members from diverse disciplines is a key attractor. Each co-applicant must spend 5% of their time on-project. 

BHF cites a specific interest in projects that can tangibly improve services for CVD in conjunction with improvements for co-morbidity vectors. This is something we have been thinking about in the PDA, of course, but doubling down on any research that is underway to substantiate these links can be a central focus for this fund.