Mildtech Ltd

Jan-Jun 2026 Conference Calendar

With a number of promising grant proposals banked and awaiting results, it might be a good time to start thinking about plans to disseminate Mildtech’s research and look to entrench some further commercial network connections in the coming year. 

To help, we’ve put together a schedule of a selection of relevant events that are due to take place in the first half of 2026 relating to the new use cases that the current funding proposals are set to carry Mildtech’s system into. We’ve cast a broad net for now (no seaweed pun intended), but if any sound of particular interest to you, we would be very happy to do a deeper dive and report back. 

The ManuREsource International Conference 2026 – 04-05 March 2026, Netherlands. This industry event is focused on managing manure surpluses and exploring advances in manure processing policy, tech, and disruptive business models. As such, it’s fertile ground (we’ll admit to the pun that time) for making market and regulatory contacts, especially since the Netherlands was mentioned as a specific international market target in your Farming Innovation Programme application recently.

The International Conference on Food Preservation Methods and Drying – 20-21 April 2026, Paris. Run by the World Academy of Science, Engineering, and Technology, this one is an academic conference in principle so could be worth looking towards with Prof Dimitrakis or another of your academic partners to stay abreast of all the bleeding-edge concepts active in the space and, potentially, forge some connections with research institutes even further afield in Europe.

The Argus Biomass Conference – 21-23 April 2026, London. This conference brings together 450+ global leaders and decision-makers at the largest global gathering of biomass leaders to explore the technologies, markets, and strategies driving biomass forward and features a dedicated session looking at biochar developments and agricultural feedstocks for sustainable aviation fuel. The networking opportunities are huge. We will say, though, that attendance to this one is not cheap at £2,199 for a three-day pass.   

The EUBCE – 34th European Biomass Conference & Exhibition – 19–22 May 2026, The Hague, Netherlands. “As one of the world’s leading biomass events, EUBCE 2026 will bring together 1,500 experts from academia, industry, and policymaking across over 60 countries to explore the latest developments in biomass, bioenergy and the circular bioeconomy. This one promises to be jam-packed with exhibitions, networking lunches, and workshops – a great place to make some noise!

Seagriculture – 16-18 June 2026, Gothenburg, Sweden. This is a marquee event in the seaweed sector which would be especially good for making more Nordic-locale connections in the form of processors, operators, and potential pilot partners. Whilst next year’s event is still to look forward to, 2025’s attendee list was impressive. You may even recognise a familiar name there in the form of Algapelago. Depending on the recent grant application with them, this could line up nicely as an opportunity to present your progress with them. 

Aquaculture UK – 16-17 June, 2026, Glasgow, Scotland. You’ll either need to split your team or dabble in time travel to make both this and Seagriculture, but Aquaculture UK is set to be an excellent chance to engage with UK-specific technologies and prospective partners. The conference programme hasn’t been finalised yet, but you can register your interest here and maybe even secure an exhibition space for your system at the event.   