AILSA INTERNAL USE ONLY

Opportunity / Funding Stream / Sector

Food for thought: We think there may be a significant R&D funding avenue that, whilst currently not best geared for Pawpass’ explicit use case, could be opened up depending on your appetite for expanding the usability of the tech. Specifically, organisations like DEFRA offer grants (like the Adopt programme) for the research, validation, and integration of technologies that can benefit the farming industry (including livestock). 

If  Pawpass’ technology could be further developed to satisfy the needs of farmers in, for instance, having Pawpass equivalents for each head in a herd of cattle, managing disease, vaccines, etc., to improve their herd’s welfare and reduce unnecessary vet bills, it could make Pawpass a great partner and/or lead on projects in this arena. Of course, this will be led by whether that avenue of commercial exploration sounds possible or attractive to you, but it could be a diversification worth its weight. 


This is perhaps a little left field, but the Animal Welfare Foundation has announced its 2026 Research Call, due to open in spring 2026. In brief, they’re looking to fund 1-2 projects, sharing a pot of £30,000  to deliver positive impacts to the lives of all animal species in the UK. Firm details will not be published until early next year, but we can glean that successful applications will likely need to follow a relatively rapid 2–6-month timeline with outputs that are suitable to form the basis of peer-reviewed journal publication. 

It looks as though the principal investigator on these projects must be UK-based and ideally be a practising vet or vet nurse. For Pawpass, there may be enough runway here to try and engage with a vet willing to conduct a Pawpass integration and usage pilot in their practice to both measure welfare gains as informed by efficiency, accuracy, and traceability of their practice. The goal here would perhaps be less focussed on the grant funding itself (though of course that wouldn’t be unwelcome) and more on the validation of Pawpass by a prestigious award in the veterinary community, bolstered by featuring in peer-reviewed publication.                

More broadly, funders such as the Clinical Veterinary Research Group and BSAVA similarly offer grants pertaining to animal welfare and veterinary research. Again, whilst these are adjacent to Pawpass’ offering, it could be beneficial to think about Pawpass as a potentially technological facilitator to feature indirectly in veterinary research.