AILSA INTERNAL USE ONLY

November 18 2025

Partnering with the AO Foundation in their Innovation Funding Program could represent a real compounding value. Project funding, regulatory support, and market intelligence are one contributor here, but this is also augmented by the fact that they partner with investors in their ecosystem.  

Project funding in the form of seed money, infrastructural access, and benefit in kind arrangements is intended to translate technologically validated concepts into deployable, practical orthopedic solutions. Of course, the utility of VitVio’s solution goes beyond orthopedic settings, but hitching your wagon with this field in the first instance could open opportunities here and provide a tight testbed from which to expand further. The scope of eligible ideas is broad so long as we can attest directly or indirectly to a strategic relevance in musculoskeletal care. Do be aware, though, that if AO provides support, they will normally expect a share of revenue generated by the supported product. This is negotiated case-by-case.

Application for the fund entails first registering for a free account on the AO Foundation portal (which only takes a few minutes). Then, you’ll be able to access the application form which comprises 7 x 4,000-character sections, alongside some small fillable fields and a free supporting document upload section (see overleaf.) The current application window is open until February 28, 2026, with feedback expected two months thereafter.  However, before putting a full application together for this competition, it would be prudent to contact Andrea Montali, the Development Incubator Lead, who is responsible for the process, at this address to confirm thematic fit.  

With VitVio’s Polish subsidiary comes potential funding opportunities specific to that locality. Foremost, Ailsa recommends registering with the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development (PARP) which administers two key zero-equity funding schemes offering PLN 200K-PLN 600K (~£41,000-£125,000), depending on whether you’re looking to travel from concept to prototype or MVP to early traction. This underpins Poland’s current €2B, five-year innovation agenda. If your Polish subsidiary is (or yet could be) registered in Eastern Poland, specifically, there are even more targeted funding opportunities available to stoke regional competitiveness there. A good step toward seeing what is specifically available and aligned for VitVio’s needs will be registering for the PARP with your subsidiary’s Polish legal entity registration when available. 

Also in Poland is the National Centre for Research and Development (NCBR) which has an annual investment budget of over £20M (and is also Poland’s National Contact Point for the Horizon Europe Programme and Eureka Network presence. Whilst their schedule can be a little erratic,  we can monitor potential opportunities here. For example, though done for the year, the Swiss-Polish cooperation programme has been active over the last two years. Given the AO Foundation’s Swiss base of operations, there could be great layering potential here.  

As a reminder, the NIHR HSDR programme seems like it could be a fantastic fit since it’s concerned with und research that produces rigorous and relevant evidence to improve the quality, accessibility and organisation of health and social care services. As VitVio’s computer vision system aims to optimise operating theatre efficiency (which is itself about organisation of services, throughput, utilisation, reduced waiting, thereby potentially improving patient outcomes) it could fit nicely into the “organisation of health services” axis of HSDR.

The call is two-stage (“outline” followed by “full” if shortlisted) for researcher-led applications. The outline phase deadline is scheduled for 21 January 2026 and calls for a 5-page research plan and a flow diagram appendix. If you’d like to go for this, it would be great for us to start programming in the workflow and indicative deadlines for drafts – just let us know. 

We’ve also taken the liberty of drafting an introductory email below to Professor Kathy Rowan on your behalf with a message to confirm alignment with the competition, if you’d like to check on that first. All you need to do is proofread, adjust and send to kathy.rowan@icnarc.org

Dear Professor Rowan,

I hope you’re well. I’m co-founder of VitVio, a startup focused on enhancing surgical workflows using AI. I am writing to enquire whether a concept we are developing would be a suitable thematic fit for the HSDR Researcher-Led funding programme (2025/330).

Our project proposes a computer vision-enabled system that continuously monitors and tracks all operational components of an operating theatre (personnel, instruments, equipment, movement, procedural steps). In automating administrative tasks and dynamically auditing error-prone ones, our system aims to streamline theatre workflows by predicting and prompting next steps, reducing idle time between procedural phases. In this way we will seek to enhance efficiency by optimising resource usage (staff, instruments, equipment) and reducing unnecessary delays.

I believe this concept aligns well with the call’s interests as its primary goal is to improve NHS service efficiency by directly addressing operational bottlenecks in theatre delivery, reducing wasted time and staff fatigue whilst improving throughput. Continuous monitoring using our solution could help prevent errors, ensuring that surgical teams adhere to best practices, checklists, and procedural protocols. Enhancing patient safety aligns closely with HSDR aims.

Our approach is a novel delivery model integrating advanced computer vision and AI into surgical workflows and (if validated through programme-supported research) the system could scale across multiple theatre settings, yielding long-term cost savings, better use of resources, and measurable improvements in patient outcomes and staff satisfaction.

I would greatly appreciate your take on whether our concept would be a viable fit for the programme. If it would be helpful to assess, I would be happy to send a concise one-page summary of our innovation. Thank you in advance for your time and any guidance you can offer. 